[AIRFLOW-XXX] GSoD: How to make DAGs production ready (#6515)
mistercrunch/Airflow: docs/best-practices.rst

  Replace it with UPSERT.
* Read and write in a specific partition. Never read the latest available data in a task. 
  Someone may update the input data between re-runs, which results in different outputs. 
  A better way is to read the input data from a specific partition. You can use ``execution_date`` as a partition. 
  You should follow this partitioning method while writing data in S3/HDFS, as well.
* The python datetime ``now()`` function gives the current datetime object. 
  This function should never be used inside a task, especially to do the critical computation, as it leads to different outcomes on each run. 
  It's fine to use it, for example, to generate a temporary log.

.. tip::

    You should define repetitive parameters such as ``connection_id`` or S3 paths in ``default_args`` rather than declaring them for each task.
    The ``default_args`` help to avoid mistakes such as typographical errors.

Deleting a task
----------------

Never delete a task from a DAG. In case of deletion, the historical information of the task disappears from the Airflow UI. 
It is advised to create a new DAG in case the tasks need to be deleted.

Communication
--------------

> Airflow executes tasks of a DAG in different directories, which can even be present 

Reviewer: The directory bit isn't true, but the issue here is as you mention tasks can be executed on different machines.

And even if using the a LocalExecutor, storing files on local disk can make retries harder (especially if another task might have deleted the file in the mean time)

on different servers in case you are using :doc:`Kubernetes executor <../executor/kubernetes>` or :doc:`Celery executor <../executor/celery>`. 
Therefore, you should not store any file or config in the local filesystem — for example, a task that downloads the JAR file that the next task executes.

> Always use XCom to communicate small messages between tasks or S3/HDFS to communicate large messages/files.

Reviewer: Please expand this to include something like "and then push a path to the remote file in Xcom to use in downstream tasks"

The tasks should also not store any authentication parameters such as passwords or token inside them. 

> Always use :ref:`Connections <concepts-connections>` to store data securely in Airflow backend and retrieve them using a unique connection id.

Reviewer: Unforutnately we can't be so bold as to say "Always" -- not every system is supported, so "Where at all possible" might be the best we can say.

Variables
---------

> You should avoid usage of Variables outside a task. Variables create a connection to metadata DB of Airflow to fetch the value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should avoid usage of Variables outside an operator's execute() method or Jinja templates. Variables create a connection to metadata DB of Airflow to fetch the value.
```

> You should avoid usage of Variables outside an operator's execute() method or Jinja templates. Variables create a connection to metadata DB of Airflow to fetch the value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should avoid usage of Variables outside an operator's ``execute()`` method or Jinja templates if possible, as Variables create a connection to metadata DB of Airflow to fetch the value which can slow down parsing and place extra load on the DB.
```

(Using Variables is common in dynamic dags.)

Airflow parses all the DAGs in the background at a specific period.
The default period is set using ``processor_poll_interval`` config, which is by default 1 second. During parsing, Airflow creates a new connection to the metadata DB for each Variable.

> It can result in a lot of open connections.

Reviewer: ```
Airflow parses all the DAG files in a loop, trying to parse each file every ``processor_poll_interval`` seconds (default 1 second). During parsing, Airflow will open and close a new connection to the metadata DB for each Variable. Because of this using Variables at the "file-scope" of your DAG files should be avoided unless you have no choice.
```

(It should be only for each dag file, not for each Variable used. But I haven't tested this)

Author: From the airflow code, it seems like a new session is created per variable

Reviewer: We configure things to use a session pool, or _should_.

But I have not tested this to see what actually happens in a long time :)

Author: Yes, you are right. I looked at the wrapper function only. The actual session created uses the pool.

> If you really want to use Variables, we advice to use them from a jinja template with the syntax :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you really want to use Variables, we advice to use them from a Jinja template with the syntax :
```

> If you really want to use Variables, we advice to use them from a Jinja template with the syntax :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best way of using variables is via a Jinja template which will delay reading the value until the task execution. The template synaxt to do this is:
```

.. code::

    {{ var.value.<variable_name> }}

or if you need to deserialize a json object from the variable :

.. code::

    {{ var.json.<variable_name> }}

.. note::

>     In general, you should not write any code outside the tasks. The code outside the tasks runs every time Airflow parses the DAG, which happens every second by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In general, you should not write any complex code outside the tasks. The code outside the tasks runs every time Airflow parses the DAG, which happens every second by default.
```

Testing a DAG
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Airflow users should treat DAGs as production level code. The DAGs should have various tests to ensure that it produces expected results.
You can write a wide variety of tests for a DAG. Let's take a look at some of them.

DAG Loader Test
---------------

This test should ensure that your DAG does not contain a piece of code that raises error while loading.
No additional code needs to be written by the user to run this test.

.. code::

 python your-dag-file.py

Running the above command without any error ensures your DAG does not contain any uninstalled dependency, syntax errors, etc. 

You can look into :ref:`Testing a DAG <testing>` for details on how to test individual operators.

Unit tests
-----------

Unit tests ensure that there is no incorrect code in your DAG. You can write a unit test for your tasks as well as your DAG.

**Unit test for loading a DAG:**

.. code::

 from airflow.models import DagBag
 import unittest

 class TestHelloWorldDAG(unittest.TestCase):

>     def setUp(self):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    @classmethod
    def setUpClass(cls):
```

>         self.dagbag = DagBag()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        cls.dagbag = DagBag()
```

    def test_dag_loaded(self):
        dag = self.dagbag.get_dag(dag_id='hello_world')
        self.assertDictEqual(self.dagbag.import_errors, {})
        self.assertIsNotNone(dag)
        self.assertEqual(len(dag.tasks), 1)

**Unit test for custom operator:**

.. code::

 import unittest
 from airflow.utils.state import State

 class MyCustomOperatorTest(unittest.TestCase):
    def setUp(self):

>         self.dag = DAG(TEST_DAG_ID, schedule_interval='@daily', default_args={'start_date' : DEFAULT_DATE})

Reviewer: `DEFAULT_DATE` isn't defined anywhere.

        self.op = MyCustomOperator(

>             dag = self.dag,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            dag=self.dag,
```

            task_id='test',
            prefix='s3://bucket/some/prefix',
        )
        self.ti = TaskInstance(task=self.op, execution_date=DEFAULT_DATE)

    def test_execute_no_trigger(self):
        self.ti.run(ignore_ti_state=True)
        self.assertEqual(self.ti.state, State.SUCCESS)
        #Assert something related to tasks results

Self-Checks
------------

You can also implement checks in a DAG to make sure the tasks are producing the results as expected.

> As an example, if you have a task that pushed data to S3, you can implement a check in the next task. The check should 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, if you have a task that pushed data to S3, you can implement a check in the next task. For example the check could 
```

> make sure that the partition is created in S3 and check if the data is correct or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
make sure that the partition is created in S3 and perform some simple checks to see if the data is correct or not.
```

Similarly, if you have a task that starts a microservice in Kubernetes or Mesos, you should check if the service has started or not using :class:`airflow.sensors.http_sensor.HttpSensor`.

.. code::

 task = PushToS3(...)

>  check = S3KeySensor(

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 check = S3KeySensor(
     task_id='check_parquet_exists',
```

    bucket_key="s3://bucket/key/foo.parquet"

>  )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    poke_interval=0,
    timeout=0,
 )
```

as there is no point in waiting for this - it's either there already, or it's failed.

>  task.set_downstream(check)

Reviewer: Please use the `>>` style, not the function style.

And can you move this up one paragraph.

Staging environment
--------------------

> Always keep a staging environment to test the complete DAG run before deploying in the production.

Reviewer: Always is too strong a qualifier.

Make sure your DAG is parameterized to change the variables, e.g., the output path of S3 operation or the database used to read the configuration.
Do not hard code values inside the DAG and then change them manually according to the environment.

You can use Airflow Variables to parameterize the DAG.

.. code::

 dest = Variable(
    "my_dag_dest",
    "s3://default-target/path/"

>  )

Reviewer: Earlier in this doc we say "don't use variables" and yet here we are. :)

Deployment in Production
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Once you have completed all the mentioned checks, it is time to deploy your DAG in production.
To do this, first, you need to make sure that the Airflow is itself production-ready. 
Let's see what precautions you need to take.

> Backend

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Database backend
```

--------

Airflow comes with an ``SQLite`` backend by default. It allows the user to run Airflow without any external database.
However, such a setup is meant to be for testing purposes only. Running the default setup can lead to data loss in multiple scenarios. 

> If you want to run Airflow in production, make sure you :doc:`configure the backend <howto/initialize-database>` to be an external database such as ``MySQL`` or ``Postgres``. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to run Airflow in production, make sure you :doc:`configure the backend <howto/initialize-database>` to be an external database such as PostgresQL or MySQL. 
```

> You can change the backend using the following config-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change the backend using the following config
```

.. code::

 [core]
 sql_alchemy_conn = my_conn_string

Once you have changed the backend, airflow needs to create all the tables required for operation.
Create an empty DB and give airflow's user the permission to ``CREATE/ALTER`` it.
Once that is done, you can run -

.. code::

 airflow upgradedb

``upgradedb`` keeps track of migrations already applies, so it's safe to run as often as you need.

.. note::
 
 Do not use ``airflow initdb`` as it can create a lot of default connection, charts, etc. which are not required in production DB.

Multi-Node Cluster
-------------------

> Airflow uses :class:`airflow.executors.sequential_executor.SequentialExecutor` by default. It works fine in most cases. However, by its nature, the user is limited to executing at most

Reviewer: I wouldn't say in most cases. Even on a local laptop LocalExecutor works much better.

Reviewer: The problem with SequentialExecutor is it _pauses the scheduler_ when it runs a task, so even for a single node production deploy SequentialExecutor is not a good choicce.

one task at a time. It's also not suitable to work in a multi-node cluster. You should use :doc:`../executor/celery` or :doc:`../executor/kubernetes` in such cases.

Once you have configured the executor, it is necessary to make sure that every node in the cluster contains the same configuration and dags.

> Airflow only sends simple instructions such as execute task X on node Y but does not send any dag files or configuration. You can use a simple CRON or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airflow only sends simple instructions such as "execute task X of dag Y" but does not send any dag files or configuration. You can use a simple cronjob or
```

any other mechanism to sync DAGs and configs across your nodes, e.g., checkout DAGs from git repo every 5 minutes on all nodes.

Logging
--------

> If you are using disposable nodes in your cluster, configure the log storage to be a distributed file system such as ``S3`` or ``GCS``.

Reviewer 3: Airflow can also be used with other tools that do not provide a file system e.g. Stackdriver Logging (not publicly available yet), Elasticsearch, Amazon CloudWatch.

Reviewer: Agreed.

A DFS makes these logs are available even after the node goes down or gets replaced. See :doc:`howto/write-logs` for configurations.

.. note::

    The logs only appear in your DFS after the task has finished. You can view the logs while the task is running in UI itself.

Configuration
--------------

Airflow comes bundles with a default airflow.cfg configuration file.

> You should environment variables for configurations that change across deployments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should use environment variables for configurations that change across deployments
```

e.g. metadata DB, password. You can do it using the format ``$AIRFLOW__{SECTION}__{KEY}``

.. code::

>  AIRFLOW__CORE__SQL_ALCHEMY_CONN=my_conn_id

Reviewer: There's also the option of using `sql_alchemy_conn_cmd` (only for the connection, not everything has a `_cmd` "flavour") so that you don't have to put secrets in the config file.

    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Best Practices
==============

Running Airflow in production is seamless. It comes bundled with all the plugins and configs
necessary to run most of the DAGs. However, you can come across certain pitfalls, which can cause occasional errors.
Let's take a look at what you need to do at various stages to avoid these pitfalls, starting from writing the DAG 
to the actual deployment in the production environment.

Writing a DAG
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Creating a new DAG in Airflow is quite simple. However, there are many things that you need to take care of
to ensure the DAG run or failure does not produce unexpected results.

Creating a task
---------------

You should treat tasks in Airflow equivalent to transactions in a database. It implies that you should never produce
incomplete results from your tasks. An example is not to produce incomplete data in ``HDFS`` or ``S3`` at the end of a task.

> Airflow retries a task if it fails. Thus, the tasks should produce the same outcome on every re-run.

Reviewer: Can, if configured. Default is to not retry though.

  A better way is to read the input data from a specific partition. You can use ``execution_date`` as a partition. 
  You should follow this partitioning method while writing data in S3/HDFS, as well.
* The python datetime ``now()`` function gives the current datetime object. 
  This function should never be used inside a task, especially to do the critical computation, as it leads to different outcomes on each run. 
  It's fine to use it, for example, to generate a temporary log.

.. tip::

    You should define repetitive parameters such as ``connection_id`` or S3 paths in ``default_args`` rather than declaring them for each task.
    The ``default_args`` help to avoid mistakes such as typographical errors.

Deleting a task
----------------

Never delete a task from a DAG. In case of deletion, the historical information of the task disappears from the Airflow UI. 
It is advised to create a new DAG in case the tasks need to be deleted.

Communication
--------------

Airflow executes tasks of a DAG on different servers in case you are using :doc:`Kubernetes executor <../executor/kubernetes>` or :doc:`Celery executor <../executor/celery>`. 

> Therefore, you should not store any file or config in the local filesystem — for example, a task that downloads the JAR file that the next task executes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, you should not store any file or config in the local filesystem as the next task is likely to run on a different server without access to it — for example, a task that downloads the data file that the next task processes.
```

In the case of :class:`Local executor <airflow.executors.local_executor.LocalExecutor>`, 
storing a file on disk can make retries harder e.g., your task requires a config file that is deleted by another task in DAG.

> If possible, use ``XCom`` to communicate small messages between tasks or S3/HDFS to communicate large messages/files. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If possible, use ``XCom`` to communicate small messages between tasks and a good way of passing larger data between tasks is to use a remote storage such as S3/HDFS. 
```

We should probably find a link for xcom too.

> For example, a task that stores processed data in S3. The task can push the S3 path for the latest data in ``Xcom``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if we have a task that stores processed data in S3 that task can push the S3 path for the output data in ``Xcom``,
```

.. code::

    {{ var.json.<variable_name> }}

.. note::

    In general, you should not write any code outside the tasks. The code outside the tasks runs every time Airflow parses the DAG, which happens every second by default.

Testing a DAG
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Airflow users should treat DAGs as production level code. The DAGs should have various tests to ensure that it produces expected results.
You can write a wide variety of tests for a DAG. Let's take a look at some of them.

DAG Loader Test
---------------

This test should ensure that your DAG does not contain a piece of code that raises error while loading.
No additional code needs to be written by the user to run this test.

.. code::

 python your-dag-file.py

Running the above command without any error ensures your DAG does not contain any uninstalled dependency, syntax errors, etc. 

You can look into :ref:`Testing a DAG <testing>` for details on how to test individual operators.

Unit tests
-----------

Unit tests ensure that there is no incorrect code in your DAG. You can write a unit test for your tasks as well as your DAG.

**Unit test for loading a DAG:**

> .. code::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code:: python
```

Reviewer: (FYI this one isn't required it seems as python is configured as the default lanauge. I think)

Reviewer 4: Oh yes I think so too. I saw at a different doc we don't mention it but it still renders it as python.

https://github.com/apache/airflow/pull/6515#discussion_r350229921

 from airflow.models import DagBag
 import unittest

 class TestHelloWorldDAG(unittest.TestCase):
    @classmethod
    def setUpClass(cls):
        cls.dagbag = DagBag()

    def test_dag_loaded(self):
        dag = self.dagbag.get_dag(dag_id='hello_world')
        self.assertDictEqual(self.dagbag.import_errors, {})
        self.assertIsNotNone(dag)
        self.assertEqual(len(dag.tasks), 1)

**Unit test for custom operator:**

> .. code::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code:: python
```

 import unittest
 from airflow.utils.state import State

 DEFAULT_DATE = '2019-10-03'
 TEST_DAG_ID = 'test_my_custom_operator'
 
 class MyCustomOperatorTest(unittest.TestCase):
    def setUp(self):
        self.dag = DAG(TEST_DAG_ID, schedule_interval='@daily', default_args={'start_date' : DEFAULT_DATE})
        self.op = MyCustomOperator(
            dag=self.dag,
            task_id='test',
            prefix='s3://bucket/some/prefix',
        )
        self.ti = TaskInstance(task=self.op, execution_date=DEFAULT_DATE)

    def test_execute_no_trigger(self):
        self.ti.run(ignore_ti_state=True)
        self.assertEqual(self.ti.state, State.SUCCESS)
        #Assert something related to tasks results

Self-Checks
------------

You can also implement checks in a DAG to make sure the tasks are producing the results as expected.

> As an example, if you have a task that pushed data to S3, you can implement a check in the next task. For example the check could 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As an example, if you have a task that pushes data to S3, you can implement a check in the next task. For example, the check could 
```

make sure that the partition is created in S3 and perform some simple checks to see if the data is correct or not.

Similarly, if you have a task that starts a microservice in Kubernetes or Mesos, you should check if the service has started or not using :class:`airflow.sensors.http_sensor.HttpSensor`.

> .. code::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code:: python
```

 task = PushToS3(...)
 check = S3KeySensor(
    task_id='check_parquet_exists',
    bucket_key="s3://bucket/key/foo.parquet",
    poke_interval=0,
    timeout=0
 )
 task >> check

Staging environment
--------------------

If possible, keep a staging environment to test the complete DAG run before deploying in the production.
Make sure your DAG is parameterized to change the variables, e.g., the output path of S3 operation or the database used to read the configuration.
Do not hard code values inside the DAG and then change them manually according to the environment.

You can use environment variables  to parameterize the DAG.

> .. code::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code:: python
```

Reviewer 4: Maybe we don't need this, the default is python I think

 import os
 
 dest = os.environ.get(
    "MY_DAG_DEST_PATH",
    "s3://default-target/path/"
 )

Deployment in Production
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Once you have completed all the mentioned checks, it is time to deploy your DAG in production.
To do this, first, you need to make sure that the Airflow is itself production-ready. 
Let's see what precautions you need to take.

Database backend
----------------

Airflow comes with an ``SQLite`` backend by default. It allows the user to run Airflow without any external database.
However, such a setup is meant to be for testing purposes only. Running the default setup can lead to data loss in multiple scenarios. 

> If you want to run Airflow in production, make sure you :doc:`configure the backend <howto/initialize-database>` to be an external database such as PostgresQL or MySQL. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you want to run Airflow in production, make sure you :doc:`configure the backend <howto/initialize-database>` to be an external database such as PostgreSQL or MySQL. 
```

You can change the backend using the following config

> .. code::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code:: ini
```

 [core]
 sql_alchemy_conn = my_conn_string

Once you have changed the backend, airflow needs to create all the tables required for operation.
Create an empty DB and give airflow's user the permission to ``CREATE/ALTER`` it.
Once that is done, you can run -

.. code::

>  airflow upgradedb

Reviewer: Oh. In master this is now `airflow db upgrade` as we've re-organized commands.

We should probably use that (as this will be merged to master) and we'll just have to make sure we correct this when cherry-picking these docs back to the next release.

```suggestion
 airflow db upgrade
```

``upgradedb`` keeps track of migrations already applies, so it's safe to run as often as you need.

.. note::
 

>  Do not use ``airflow initdb`` as it can create a lot of default connection, charts, etc. which are not required in production DB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Do not use ``airflow db init`` as it can create a lot of default connection, charts, etc. which are not required in production DB.
```

Multi-Node Cluster
-------------------

Airflow uses :class:`airflow.executors.sequential_executor.SequentialExecutor` by default. However, by its nature, the user is limited to executing at most
one task at a time. ``Sequential Executor`` also pauses the scheduler when it runs a task, hence not recommended in a production setup. 
You should use :class:`Local executor <airflow.executors.local_executor.LocalExecutor>` for a single machine. 
For multi-node setup, you should use :doc:`Kubernetes executor <../executor/kubernetes>` or :doc:`Celery executor <../executor/celery>`.

Once you have configured the executor, it is necessary to make sure that every node in the cluster contains the same configuration and dags.
Airflow only sends simple instructions such as "execute task X of dag Y" but does not send any dag files or configuration. You can use a simple cronjob or
any other mechanism to sync DAGs and configs across your nodes, e.g., checkout DAGs from git repo every 5 minutes on all nodes.

Logging
--------

> If you are using disposable nodes in your cluster, configure the log storage to be a distributed file system such as ``S3`` and ``GCS``, or external services such as 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you are using disposable nodes in your cluster, configure the log storage to be a distributed file system (DFS) such as ``S3`` and ``GCS``, or external services such as 
```

Adding DFS here would be good as we use it in a sentence below too.

Stackdriver Logging, Elasticsearch or Amazon CloudWatch.
This way, the logs are available even after the node goes down or gets replaced. See :doc:`howto/write-logs` for configurations.

.. note::

    The logs only appear in your DFS after the task has finished. You can view the logs while the task is running in UI itself.

Configuration
--------------

> Airflow comes bundles with a default airflow.cfg configuration file.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Airflow comes bundles with a default ``airflow.cfg`` configuration file.
```
